Hai secret no more (#4952)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/hai/hai reveal 6 end.txt

# Copyright (c) 2020 MasterOfGrey
#
# Endless Sky is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
# terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
# Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#
# Endless Sky is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
# WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A

> # PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
# this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
```

# Copyright (c) 2020 MasterOfGrey
#
# Endless Sky is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
# terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
# Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#
# Endless Sky is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
# WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
# PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

########################################################################

mission "Hai Reveal [D01] Cleanup"
	landing
	name "Hai Diplomacy"
	description "With the crisis now averted, all that remains is to go to Mountaintop for the formalities."
	source "Hai-home"
	destination "Mountaintop"
	passengers 4
	blocked "You need <bunks> passenger spaces to transport Xilin, Alondo, Sayari and Teeneep."
	to offer
		has "Hai Rescue [C08] Freedom: done"
	on offer
		event "mountaintop ascendant"
		fail "Hai Rescue [C07A] Devil-Hide Fleet"

> 		log `Returned the Hai to their own space to bring an end to the missing Hai saga. All that remains is to work out what to do about the leak, and the cover story so thin as to provide no modesty to its wearers.`

Author: I'm not so sure about that, since the description following it only applies to the cover story.

> 		log `Returned the Hai to their own space to bring an end to the missing Hai saga. All that remains is to work out what to do about the leak, and the cover story so thin as to provide no modesty to its wearers.`

Reviewer 2: It's grouped as " ' what to do ' " about 'the leak' and 'the cover story' [,which is] 'so thin as to...' "

This is when remembering the vocabulary behind this stuff would actually be beneficial lol

The two part list doesn't get broken up by a comma because it's all part of the same phrase (and the greater clause), but the description on the one part after should be separated, especially with the implied words being dropped.

I can't remember the name of the construction, but it's essentially the same as saying "Jon, my uncle," or even "my uncle Jon," because when the construction is nothing but a proper name in it's entirety then you -don't- separate it off.

> 		log `Teeneep and General Choot'k together, prominent leaders of the Fettered and Unfettered Hai, kissed in a romantic goodbye. They spoke of a future peaceful unification of the Hai.`

Author: Good catch, this is an appropriate change for the log.

			choice
				`	(Shout.)`
				`	(Draw your weapon.)`
				`	(Raise your hands.)`
					goto surrender
			`	The people in the windows don't take very kindly to your decision, and very quickly make sure it's your last.`
				die
			label surrender
			`	An elderly woman arises from her seat in a deep-set alcove and shuffles out in front of you with a gnarled, wooden walking stick. Despite her weathered skin and obvious age, her eyes are clear as she looks at you with veiled judgment. "You are a long way from home, Captain <last>."`
			choice
				`	"I suppose that is true."`
			`	She chuckles. "Now, what would bring the infamous war hero all the way to my humble abode?"`
			`	"I'm looking for Terry Adrianopolous, I believe she might have come here," you answer.`
			`	"Oh, I know very well who you're looking for, Captain," she says. "My question has more to do with the why."`
			choice
				`	"I need to tie up some loose ends."`
				`	"I need to know the answer to a question."`
					goto question
			`	She shakes her head, "The only loose end here is you."`
			`	The people in the windows open fire.`
				die
			label question

> 			`	She stares into your eyes for a long few seconds, and then she bows her head. You think you catch sight of a tear glistening as she turns away. "If you have the means, point your scanners towards Mebsuta from here. Seek out Aspiration."`

Author: I think this messes up the emphasis.

> 			`	She stares into your eyes for a long few seconds, and then she bows her head. You think you catch sight of a tear glistening as she turns away. "If you have the means, point your scanners towards Mebsuta from here. Seek out Aspiration."`

Reviewer 2: It does change it slightly, but it feels super awkward. Could just be a difference in common local phrasing?

> 			`	She stares into your eyes for a long few seconds, and then she bows her head. You think you catch sight of a tear glistening as she turns away. "If you have the means, point your scanners towards Mebsuta from here. Seek out Aspiration."`

Author: Mmm, maybe.

			`	Her expression seems to be wrestling between fury and despair at this point, "So now what? You here to kill me then?!"`
			choice
				`	"You kidnapped thousands of people. How is that a brighter future?"`
			`	"Of course you have no idea!" she throws up her hands and expresses a noise of frustration.`
			`	Her voice drops to a more reasonable level. "I never wanted to kidnap people," and she gets quieter again, "I inherited that legacy..."`
			`	"You still profited off it, did nothing to stop it," you say.`
			`	Your tone had not been accusatory, but merely matter of fact, and yet they seem to have struck her like a sack of bricks. Her composure shatters and she begins to sob, sinking to her knees and shielding her face from the wind.`
			`	"It was never meant to be like this," she forces out, "but the Philosophers were our only resource, and we weren't in control anymore."`
			`	"We wanted to reform the government, make it better, make it work for the people instead of against them. We dealt with the devil to keep that dream alive I suppose. I guess I should have expected it to get us burnt eventually."`
			choice

> 				`	"Who is 'us?'"`

Author: It is typically expected to refer to the most recent subject though when asking this question. Or at least it is in Aussie english.

			label decide
			choice
				`	(Spare her.)`
					goto spare
				`	(End her.)`
					goto end
				`	"Am I to be judge, jury, and executioner?"`
					goto judge
			label spare
			`	You draw your weapon and point it at her, your thumb on the safety. When you look inside yourself though, you think maybe the future is worth the sacrifice made in the attempt.`
			apply
				set "spared terry"
			`	The holster clicks as you put the weapon away.`
				goto return
			label end
			`	You draw your weapon and point it at her, your thumb on the safety. Some prices are too high to pay for a better future.`
			apply
				set "ended terry"
			`	The retort of the weapon is taken away on the wind.`
				goto return
			label judge
			`	"You'd better be," she says. "You and I both know that this can't become public. If you take me to the Syndicate they will do away with me if they find out, and I doubt they could manage to not."`
			`	"Oh, Alastair did tell me to say you're fired if you don't get back quickly... that was over a week ago now," you tell her.`
			`	She rolls her eyes. "Of course, this is exactly the sort of callous governance I expect of them.`

> 			`	"Don't distract from the point though. I can never go back. You're the only one who knows everything, and no one else can know it all. Taking me back is a guarantee that I'll be 'disappeared' - you might as well pull the trigger yourself. You must decide here, now, how this ends.`

Author: Ok actually addressing this now with thoughts:
1. "though" is relevant, your line of questioning is actively leading away from the critical issue. Using "though" acknowledges that the line of conversation might be valid, but that she has no capacity to deal with it. It's a redirect.
2.  "can know" and "could understand" mean notably different things here. In this case "can know" *also* encompasses "can be allowed to know" in addition to "could really understand". Lot's of different people on multiple sides would suffer if lots of other different people were allowed to know various different details here. It's more than just no one else being able to really understand, it's also that if it leaves here there is no clean resolution. Every possible outcome puts someone or something in danger - whether that's the world you're on, the agreement with the Hai, the recent peace with the Syndicate, or even the tentative grounds for reconciliation between the Hai and Unfettered. No one else *can* know *or else* - is the subtext.
3. "We both know" - no. You and I know, but that's not strictly knowledge given to the player anywhere along the way, this makes assumptions about the insightfulness of the actual player and the character they've built. Assumptions which aren't necessarily valid by any great stretch.

		trade "Luxury Goods" 1134
		trade "Medical" 582
		trade "Metal" 339
		trade "Plastic" 353
		object
			sprite star/f5
			period 10
		object
			sprite planet/rock15
			distance 382
			period 52.6472
		object
			sprite planet/rock6
			distance 686
			period 77.7827
		object Aspiration
			sprite planet/ice8-b
			distance 980
			period 98.6622
		object
			sprite planet/dust6
			distance 1299
			period 119.0528
		object
			sprite planet/gas1
			distance 1706.99
			period 557.553
			object
				sprite planet/dust1
				distance 216
				period 11.1964
	planet Aspiration
		landscape land/sea17-harro
		description `The world of Aspiration appears to be a mild, habitable world, but one currently in an advanced ice age now slowly retreating. The equatorial region of the planet is warm and comfortable, a cool temperate at the present time. The native biosphere seems to be mostly grasses and something resembling pine trees. In a few thousand years, it might look similar to Earth before it was paved over. For now, it's a sparse world with a single major town built on a promontory, overlooking a wide river mouth which carries runoff from continental scale glaciers to the sea.`

> 		spaceport `The spaceport on Aspiration is a spaceport in the same way that an airport at a regional town is an airport. It has the most minimal facilities to handle a ship landing without disturbance to the nearby town, and that is it. There are no shops or stalls. Aspiration is not on any trade routes and it does not expect visitors. A lone freighter is parked up permanently on the outskirts.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		spaceport `The spaceport on Aspiration is a spaceport in the same way that an airport at a regional town is an airport. It has the most minimal facilities to handle a ship landing without disturbance to the nearby town, and that is it. There are no shops or stalls. Aspiration is not on any trade routes and it does not expect visitors. A lone freighter is parked permanently on the outskirts.`
```

		trade "Luxury Goods" 1134
		trade "Medical" 582
		trade "Metal" 339
		trade "Plastic" 353
		object
			sprite star/f5
			period 10
		object
			sprite planet/rock15
			distance 382
			period 52.6472
		object
			sprite planet/rock6
			distance 686
			period 77.7827
		object Aspiration
			sprite planet/ice8-b
			distance 980
			period 98.6622
		object
			sprite planet/dust6
			distance 1299
			period 119.0528
		object
			sprite planet/gas1
			distance 1706.99
			period 557.553
			object
				sprite planet/dust1
				distance 216
				period 11.1964
	planet Aspiration
		attributes pirate
		landscape land/sea17-harro
		description `The world of Aspiration appears to be a mild, habitable world, but one currently in an advanced ice age now slowly retreating. The equatorial region of the planet is warm and comfortable, a cool temperate at the present time. The native biosphere seems to be mostly grasses and something resembling pine trees. In a few thousand years, it might look similar to Earth before it was paved over. For now, it's a sparse world with a single major town built on a promontory, overlooking a wide river mouth which carries runoff from continental scale glaciers to the sea.`

> 		spaceport `The spaceport on Aspiration is a spaceport in the same way that an airport at a regional town is an airport. It has the most minimal facilities to handle a ship landing without disturbance to the nearby town, and that is it. There are no shops or stalls. Aspiration is not on any trade routes and it does not expect visitors. A lone freighter is parked up permanently on the outskirts.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		spaceport `The spaceport on Aspiration is a spaceport in the same way that an airport at a regional town is an airport. It has the most minimal facilities to handle a ship landing without disturbance to the nearby town, and that is it. There are no shops or stalls. Aspiration is not on any trade routes and it does not expect visitors. A lone freighter is parked permanently on the outskirts.`
```

			`	The historic moment lays the groundwork for a future official treaty framework and governmental cooperation, as well as establishing <planet> as the principle diplomatic embassy for both peoples. Less publicly, extensive surveillance fleets are posted on both sides of the wormhole to detect any kidnappings or other illegal travel. Now, the only way for illicit transfers to happen is if a government employee is involved, but all three countries have quietly agreed to watch for that behavior and punish it severely.`
			`	At last, it really is over, and you can get back to your own life.`
			`	Maybe you'll have to find out who the Unfettered were stealing their other technologies from. They mentioned another group: the "Wanderers."`

event "Vara K'chrai is accessible"

> 	# You can now begin the Wanderers campaign.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	# You can now begin the Wanderer campaign.
```

			`	"We'll be ready to go in a couple of hours. What do you say?"`
			choice
				`	"Seems silly not to come on the final trip, of course I'll take you."`
					accept
		#Taking the diplomats (all) and Teeneep to Mountaintop; for the public resolution, spirit of this was already drafted in the days while you returned.
		#This treaty is essentially a 'resolution' to commit to a broader and more detailed treaty to be negotiated in full.
		#The actual treaty, post certain Hai missions, will be the one to result in a station in Cardax.
	on complete
		log `The Free Worlds, Republic, and Hai Elders, have signed a resolution to ensure safe passage for Hai in human space, on the condition that they register with a customs authority on Mountaintop. Any Hai sent against their will into human space will be recovered alive if possible, regardless of the risk to human soldiers. Human authorities will not change their approach towards regular human pirates and slavery though, citing "unsustainable loss of life."`

> 		log `Unfortunately it seems that in the midst of the crisis a single ship loaded with kidnapped Hai was misplaced by the pirate faction. Now they're in need of rescue from where they've been dumped, and someone has to check for loose ends...`

Author: ```suggestion
		log `Have learned that during the crisis a single ship loaded with kidnapped Hai was misplaced and abandoned. They require rescue and may indicate the presence of a loose end.`
```

			`	The station appears to have had work ongoing on it before you arrived, and after a remarkably short time you find yourself standing with the diplomats in the grand Borealis Chamber 'Where Mountains Touch The Sky' as Teeneep makes the first publicly broadcast speech from a Hai to the human media. The three heads of state announce a resolution granting safe passage to all Hai in human space, so long as they register with customs on Mountaintop before entering, and Teeneep expresses similar sentiments for humans visiting Hai space. It is announced that extensive surveillance fleets will be posted on both sides of the wormhole to ensure safety.`
			`	This meeting will now turn into a multi-day summit to discuss and settle upon the appropriate terms of reference and necessary criteria for a full resolution outlining a path to a formal treaty. This process will take a number of days.`
			choice
				`	(Relax)`
			`Just when you thought that maybe you'd get on with your own life, there's a knock on the door of your station quarters just as you finish breakfast. A slightly sheepish looking Sayari and Xilin are waiting for you when you open the door.`

> 			`	"We need to talk."`

Author: I kind of liked the gravity that that was imparted here by moving to a new line.

> 			`	"We need to talk."`

Reviewer 3: Fair enough. Feel free to resolve.

		spaceport `The spaceport is a spacious docking assembly sheltered under broad carapace-like structures which are arrayed around the lower decks like petals. It is designed to look impressive and still has that shiny look and freshly oiled smell of a newly minted construction, though it has only basic facilities and services.`
		security 1
	
mission "Hai Reveal [D02] Cleanup"
	landing
	name "Hai Diplomacy"
	description "Pick up a misplaced group of kidnapped Hai and find out what happened."
	source "Mountaintop"
	stopover "Sunracer"
	destination "Mountaintop"
	passengers 23
	blocked "You need <bunks> passenger spaces to pick up the misplaced Hai, make sure you have that and return here."
	to offer
		has "Hai Reveal [D01] Cleanup: done"
	on stopover
		conversation

> 			`Arriving to Sunracer you follow the coded coordinates you were given to avoid drawing unnecessary attention. No one wants any press on this with the Hai's first public appearance only just days past and still dominating the news cycle. Fortunately a glance at the feeds your ship can pick up on the way in seems to indicate that the government response has taken the wind out of the more sensationalist talking heads, or at least the ones with notable followings.`

Author: I wanted to provide some sort of direct indication that the hysterical populists mentioned waaayy back in part 1 had been somewhat effectively countered. It was just closure for a minor point.

> 			`Arriving to Sunracer you follow the coded coordinates you were given to avoid drawing unnecessary attention. No one wants any press on this with the Hai's first public appearance only just days past and still dominating the news cycle. Fortunately a glance at the feeds your ship can pick up on the way in seems to indicate that the government response has taken the wind out of the more sensationalist talking heads, or at least the ones with notable followings.`

Reviewer 3: Gotcha. I didn't make that connection myself, but it's also been a good while since I read part 1.
```suggestion
			``Arriving on Sunracer, you follow the coded coordinates you were given to avoid drawing unnecessary attention. With the Hai's first public appearance only just days past and still dominating the news cycle, you've been instructed to keep this as low-profile as possible. Fortunately, a glance at the feeds your ship picks up seems to indicate that the government response has taken the wind out of the more sensationalist talking heads - or at least the ones with notable followings.`
```
Just made a couple edits, but threw the last sentence back in. This look good?

				goto responses
			label depart
			`	The Hai sincerely thanks you and they load their meager possessions and board your ship inside of twenty minutes. The Star Barge looks like it'd take a few hours at least to make ready for flight and then have to go through the risk of visiting the spaceport for fueling, so you leave it behind.`

mission "Hai Reveal [D02A] Cleanup"
	landing
	invisible
	source "Sunracer"
	to offer
		has "Hai Reveal [D02] Cleanup: active"
	on enter Mirfak
		dialog "A message from Alastair Korban pops up before you can depart Mirfak, 'Hey Captain, it seems Terry has gone missing, if you see her let her know she will lose her position if she doesn't return to her duties soon.'"
		fail

mission "Hai Reveal [D03] Cleanup"
	landing
	name "Loose Ends"
	description "See if you can find Terry, she might have been involved in the kidnappings."
	source "Mountaintop"
	destination "Freedom"
	to offer
		has "Hai Reveal [D02] Cleanup: done"
	on offer
		event "lofty spawn"

> 		log `With the Hai safely recovered you have a hunch about the loose end that left them there. It doesn't make a lot of sense yet, but you're sure you'll find answers on Freedom.`

Author: Seems a little overly brief, though I understand the general purpose of this change.

> 		log `With the Hai safely recovered you have a hunch about the loose end that left them there. It doesn't make a lot of sense yet, but you're sure you'll find answers on Freedom.`

Reviewer 3: The main concern with these logs is that logs are written in first person (though often with "I" and "me" excluded, like a person taking notes). If you'd like to keep the extra detail then we'd just need to tackle that conversion.

> 		log `With the Hai safely recovered you have a hunch about the loose end that left them there. It doesn't make a lot of sense yet, but you're sure you'll find answers on Freedom.`

Author: Yeah I think I'd like to do that in this case.

> 		log `With the Hai safely recovered you have a hunch about the loose end that left them there. It doesn't make a lot of sense yet, but you're sure you'll find answers on Freedom.`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		log `Recovered Hai after mysterious circumstances left them on Sunracer. Heading to Freedom to follow up on a hunch about this loose end. Will hopefully find answers there.`
```
How about this?

		conversation
			`An all-Hai greeting party are waiting to provide aid and coordinate the safe return of those you've rescued from Sunracer when you return to Mountaintop. It appears to have avoided media attention, and the summit is progressing towards a resolution at an acceptable rate. It's been slow going, since the Hai and human legal systems are so different that establishing common legal terms of reference has been a long-winded exercise.`
			`	You've had a couple of days to contemplate the turn of events that led to you hauling a group of spontaneously abandoned Hai out of Syndicate space. The timing seems suspect, the individual seems familiar, and there's just something about what the Philosophers said that keeps niggling at your thoughts.`
			`	While your passengers are quietly loaded onto a handful of transports to be quietly taken home, Sayari and Xilin find you somewhere quiet.`
			`	"Thank you, <last>, you had all the necessary discretion at this sensitive time," says Sayari.`

> 			`	Xilin is more direct, "I'll certainly thank you for saving me from another headache. Was there anything else you found? It seems so odd."`

Author: At this point it was meant to imply a certain degree of familiarity. You've gone through a fair bit by this point.
I seem to recall that the "Captain" gets dropped by a couple of people near the end of the FW plot (or maybe in the epilogue)?

> 			`An all-Hai greeting party are waiting to provide aid and coordinate the safe return of those you've rescued from Sunracer when you return to Mountaintop. It appears to have avoided media attention, and the summit is progressing towards a resolution at an acceptable rate. It's been slow going, since the Hai and human legal systems are so different that establishing common legal terms of reference has been a long-winded exercise.`
> 			`	You've had a couple of days to contemplate the turn of events that led to you hauling a group of spontaneously abandoned Hai out of Syndicate space. The timing seems suspect, the individual seems familiar, and there's just something about what the Philosophers said that keeps niggling at your thoughts.`
> 			`	While your passengers are quietly loaded onto a handful of transports to be quietly taken home, Sayari and Xilin find you somewhere quiet.`
> 			`	"Thank you, <last>, you had all the necessary discretion at this sensitive time," says Sayari.`
> 			`	Xilin is more direct, "I'll certainly thank you for saving me from another headache. Was there anything else you found? It seems so odd."`

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I think it does get dropped. But `<last>` doesn't really imply any more familiarity to me personally than `Captain <last>`. I'll let you decide. Below, I've reverted that change.
```suggestion
			`	When you return to Mountaintop, an all-Hai greeting party is waiting to provide aid and coordinate the safe return of those you've rescued from Sunracer. It appears to have avoided media attention, and the summit is progressing toward a resolution at an acceptable rate. It's been slow going: the Hai and human legal systems are so different that establishing common legal terms of reference has been a long-winded exercise.`
			`	You've had a couple of days to contemplate the turn of events that led to you hauling a group of spontaneously abandoned Hai out of Syndicate space. The timing seems suspect, the individual seems familiar, and there's just something about what the Philosophers said that you just can't shake.`
			`	While your passengers are quietly loaded onto a handful of transports to be taken home, Sayari and Xilin find you somewhere quiet. "Thank you, <last>. You had all the necessary discretion at this sensitive time," says Sayari.`
			`	Xilin is more direct, "I'll certainly thank you for saving me from another headache. Was there anything else you found? It seems so odd."``
```

			choice
				`	"There is something, but I'm not totally sure."`
			`	They both frown and huddle in closer. "Do you think some of the kidnappers escaped, do you think they'll continue?" asks Sayari.`
			`	"No," you say.`
			choice
				`	"However, I think there's one thing I should check out."`
			`	At this Xilin raises an eyebrow, "Is this something I'm going to have to report?"`
			choice
				`	"Not if I can help it."`

> 				`	"I think and hope, perhaps not."`

Author: Maybe just, "Hopefully not, but we'll see."?

> 				`	"I think and hope, perhaps not."`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
				`	"Hopefully not, but we'll see."`
```

			`	You leave them with only guesses, you're not entirely sure yourself but one thing you do know, is that you have to go to Freedom where this all began.`
				accept	
	
mission "Hai Reveal [D04] Cleanup"
	landing
	name "Loose Ends"
	description "Find Aspiration in the Al Hurr system. It wasn't on the maps before but it's meant to be close by."
	source "Freedom"
	destination "Aspiration"
	clearance
	to offer
		has "Hai Reveal [D03] Cleanup: done"
	on enter Almaaz
		dialog `As you depart the planet, you notice a new system has appeared on your scanners to the south-west. You should adjust your destination accordingly.`
	on offer
		event "lofty goals"

> 		log `You have confirmed that the loose end is Terry, her grandmother ultimately pleaded with you for her life, but also told you where to find her. It turns out there was a whole other world out here in the north only accessible by jump drive. Someone lives there and apparently Terry has something to do with it.`

Author: Ah the ever impersonal log file.

> 		log `You have confirmed that the loose end is Terry, her grandmother ultimately pleaded with you for her life, but also told you where to find her. It turns out there was a whole other world out here in the north only accessible by jump drive. Someone lives there and apparently Terry has something to do with it.`

Reviewer 3: Yup. Just trying to give something that moves it in line with established. If you wanna take a shot at converting it to first person and keeping some of the personality, feel free to!

		trade "Luxury Goods" 1134
		trade "Medical" 582
		trade "Metal" 339
		trade "Plastic" 353
		object
			sprite star/f5
			period 10
		object
			sprite planet/rock15
			distance 382
			period 52.6472
		object
			sprite planet/rock6
			distance 686
			period 77.7827
		object Aspiration
			sprite planet/ice8-b
			distance 980
			period 98.6622
		object
			sprite planet/dust6
			distance 1299
			period 119.0528
		object
			sprite planet/gas1
			distance 1706.99
			period 557.553
			object
				sprite planet/dust1
				distance 216
				period 11.1964
	planet Aspiration
		landscape land/sea17-harro
		description `The world of Aspiration appears to be a mild, habitable world, but one currently in an advanced ice age now slowly retreating. The equatorial region of the planet is warm and comfortable, a cool temperate at the present time. The native biosphere seems to be mostly grasses and something resembling pine trees. In a few thousand years it might be not dissimilar from Earth before it was paved over, but for now it's a sparse world, with a single major town built on a promontory overlooking a wide river mouth carrying runoff from continental scale glaciers to the sea.`

> 		spaceport `The spaceport on Aspiration is a spaceport in the same way that an airport at a regional town is an airport. It has the most minimal facilities to handle a ship landing without disturbance to the nearby town, and that is it. There are no shops or stalls, Aspiration is not on any trade routes and it does not expect visitors. A lone freighter is parked up permanently on the outskirts.`

Author: "might look similar _to_ Earth" ?

> 		spaceport `The spaceport on Aspiration is a spaceport in the same way that an airport at a regional town is an airport. It has the most minimal facilities to handle a ship landing without disturbance to the nearby town, and that is it. There are no shops or stalls, Aspiration is not on any trade routes and it does not expect visitors. A lone freighter is parked up permanently on the outskirts.`

Reviewer 3: Oops! Fixed.

		spaceport `The spaceport on Aspiration is a spaceport in the same way that an airport at a regional town is an airport. It has the most minimal facilities to handle a ship landing without disturbance to the nearby town, and that is it. There are no shops or stalls, Aspiration is not on any trade routes and it does not expect visitors. A lone freighter is parked up permanently on the outskirts.`
		"required reputation" 100

mission "Hai Reveal [D05] Cleanup"
	landing
	name "Loose Ends"
	description "Return to the summit and assure Sayari and Xilin that there will be no further problems."
	source "Aspiration"
	destination "Mountaintop"
	clearance
	to offer
		has "Hai Reveal [D04] Cleanup: done"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`	The world of Aspiration appears to be a mild, habitable world, but one currently in an advanced ice age now slowly retreating. The equatorial region of the planet is warm and comfortable, a cool temperate at the present time. The native biosphere seems to be mostly grasses and something resembling pine trees. In a few thousand years it might be not dissimilar from Earth before it was paved over, but for now it's a sparse world, with a single major town built on a promontory overlooking a wide river mouth carrying runoff from continental scale glaciers to the sea.`

Author: This happens on landing, so it occurs before you have any chance to read the description.

> 			`	The world of Aspiration appears to be a mild, habitable world, but one currently in an advanced ice age now slowly retreating. The equatorial region of the planet is warm and comfortable, a cool temperate at the present time. The native biosphere seems to be mostly grasses and something resembling pine trees. In a few thousand years it might be not dissimilar from Earth before it was paved over, but for now it's a sparse world, with a single major town built on a promontory overlooking a wide river mouth carrying runoff from continental scale glaciers to the sea.`

Reviewer 3: True, but that doesn't change that it's repeated. If other folks are cool with the repetition then I'm cool with resolving, but I'd personally prefer to avoid a such an exact copy-paste. Maybe we can just reword some of it so it's at least not writing something from scratch?

			`	As you approach she turns and you can see she has been crying. "You know you ruined everything," she says, "we were so close."`
			`	The wind almost steals her last word and you unconsciously step closer to hear her better, which causes her to tense.`
			choice
				`	"So close to what?"`
			`	"To changing everything, to remaking the Syndicate, to creating a whole new political order."`
			`	She wipes away a tear and visibly steels herself to speak, "I was Alastair's chosen successor, I had already dealt with the competition, a few more years and I'd have been a hero!"`
			`	She turns slightly and gestures at the sea. "Instead now I'm here, and you get to be the hero, a dumb war hero," her voice rises in pitch and volume, "Never mind a brighter future for humanity!"`

> 			`	Her expression seems to be wrestling between fury and despair at this point, "So now what? You here to kill me then?!"`

Author: Would like to workshop this. She is distraught at this point, she shouldn't feel to be speaking too formally.

> 			`	Her expression seems to be wrestling between fury and despair at this point, "So now what? You here to kill me then?!"`

Reviewer 3: Got anything specific you'd like to edit? I didn't think my changes really affected how those lines would spoken aloud, so you'll have to help me with this one.

> 			`	"To changing everything, to remaking the Syndicate, to creating a whole new political order."`
> 			`	She wipes away a tear and visibly steels herself to speak, "I was Alastair's chosen successor, I had already dealt with the competition, a few more years and I'd have been a hero!"`
> 			`	She turns slightly and gestures at the sea. "Instead now I'm here, and you get to be the hero, a dumb war hero," her voice rises in pitch and volume, "Never mind a brighter future for humanity!"`
> 			`	Her expression seems to be wrestling between fury and despair at this point, "So now what? You here to kill me then?!"`

Author: I have been trying to reconcile the suggested changes with the scene I'm visualising and this is the best I think I can adapt what I'm seeing to your thoughts. There's also absolutely no need, in this scene that only has you and one other person for the entire duration, to be calling her out by name more than is absolutely necessary.

```suggestion
			`	"To changing everything. To remaking the Syndicate. To creating a whole new political order."`
			`	She wipes away a tear and visibly steels herself to speak. "I was Alastair's chosen successor. I had already dealt with the competition; a few more years and I'd have been a hero!"`
			`	She turns slightly, her voice sullen as she gestures at the sea. "Instead now I'm here, and you get to be the hero, a dumb war hero," her voice rises in pitch and volume as she shouts, "Never mind a brighter future for humanity!"`
			`	Her expression wrestles between fury and despair at this point, "So now what? You here to kill me then?!"`
```

			choice
				`	"You kidnapped thousands of people, how is that a brighter future?"`

> 			`	"Of course you have no idea!" she throws up her hands and expresses a noise of frustration.`
> 			`	Her voice drops to a more reasonable level. "I never wanted to kidnap people," and she gets quieter again, "I inherited that legacy..."`
> 			`	"You still profited off it, did nothing to stop it," you say.`
> 			`	Your tone had not been accusatory, but merely matter of fact, and yet they seem to have struck her like a sack of bricks. Her composure shatters and she begins to sob, sinking to her knees and shielding her face from the wind.`
> 			`	"It was never meant to be like this," she forces out, "but the Philosophers were our only resource, and we weren't in control anymore."`
> 			`	"We wanted to reform the government, make it better, make it work for the people instead of against them. We dealt with the devil to keep that dream alive I suppose. I guess I should have expected it to get us burnt eventually."`

Author: ```suggestion
			`	"Of course you have no idea!" she throws up her hands and expresses a noise of frustration.`
			`	Her voice drops to a more reasonable level. "I never wanted to kidnap people," and she gets quieter again, "I inherited that legacy..."`
			`	"You still profited off it, did nothing to stop it," you point out.`
			`	Your tone had not been accusatory, but merely matter of fact, and yet they seem to have struck her like a sack of bricks. Her composure shatters, and she begins to sob, sinking to her knees and shielding her face from the wind.`
			`	"It was never meant to be like this," she forces out between sobs. "But the Philosophers were our only resource, and we weren't in control anymore.`
			`	"We wanted to reform the government, make it better, make it work for the people instead of against them. We dealt with the devil to keep that dream alive. I guess I should have expected it to get us burnt eventually."`
```
Alternative suggestion.

> 			`	"Of course you have no idea!" she throws up her hands and expresses a noise of frustration.`
> 			`	Her voice drops to a more reasonable level. "I never wanted to kidnap people," and she gets quieter again, "I inherited that legacy..."`
> 			`	"You still profited off it, did nothing to stop it," you say.`
> 			`	Your tone had not been accusatory, but merely matter of fact, and yet they seem to have struck her like a sack of bricks. Her composure shatters and she begins to sob, sinking to her knees and shielding her face from the wind.`
> 			`	"It was never meant to be like this," she forces out, "but the Philosophers were our only resource, and we weren't in control anymore."`
> 			`	"We wanted to reform the government, make it better, make it work for the people instead of against them. We dealt with the devil to keep that dream alive I suppose. I guess I should have expected it to get us burnt eventually."`

Reviewer 3: I'd like to work on that interjection to the dialogue (`and she gets quieter again`) if we keep it in. How about this?
```suggestion
			`	"Of course you have no idea!" she throws up her hands and expresses a noise of frustration.`
			`	Her voice drops to a more reasonable level. "I never wanted to kidnap people," Terry says, then lowers her voice even more. "I inherited that legacy..."`
			`	"You still profited off it, did nothing to stop it," you point out.`
			`	Your tone had not been accusatory, but merely matter of fact, and yet they seem to have struck her like a sack of bricks. Her composure shatters, and she begins to sob, sinking to her knees and shielding her face from the wind.`
			`	"It was never meant to be like this," she forces out between sobs. "But the Philosophers were our only resource, and we weren't in control anymore.`
			`	"We wanted to reform the government, make it better, make it work for the people instead of against them. We dealt with the devil to keep that dream alive. I guess I should have expected it to get us burnt eventually."`
```

			`	She sighs, "My father and I, and a couple of the old survivors of the purge. It's only me left now though, just one Base Principle."`
			`	You shake your head and ask, "Do you realize you nearly started a war that would have killed millions? Possibly ended human government entirely!"`
			`	"I know," she says, calm now, "obviously not my intent, but maybe that would have been better in the long-run than the Republic and its corruption. There's no apology appropriate for it, and I can't pretend it would be totally sincere on that front. War changes things, sometimes some pain in the short term is needed for a better future."`
			`	"The Free Worlds were almost the perfect catalyst, but none of us could have predicted the Pug. Still, that nearly forced Alastair into retirement, it was almost enough. Were it not for the Pug I would already be running the Syndicate, and there would have been no further risk with the Hai. None of this would have ever happened."`
			`	Her expression is defiant, "No one would have cared about a few missing people in the world I would have built! A necessary sacrifice in the name of progress, and I would've shut down the pirates myself."`
			choice

> 				`	"It's always fine to say as such about plans that didn't happen."`

Author: Yes, basically. It's easy for people to assume that everyone would see things their way if the improvements they sought actually happened. People, of course, aren't typically that uniform in response to things, even if it benefits them.

> 				`	"It's always fine to say as such about plans that didn't happen."`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
				`	"It's easy to say that without seeing the end result. You can't know whether it would have worked out that way."`
```
This could maybe still use some improving, but I think it's more clear than it was previously. Thoughts?

				`	"I think people would always still have had a problem with kidnappings."`
			`	She gives you a hard stare, but her resolve isn't up to staring down a war hero from her knees, she looks away and you can see her blinking away more tears.`
			`	"Is this to be my end then?" she asks, "Is this the price I pay for my efforts?"`
			label decide
			choice
				`	(Spare her.)`
					goto spare
				`	(End her.)`
					goto end
				`	"Am I to be judge jury and executioner?"`
					goto judge
			label spare
			`	You draw your weapon and point it at her, your thumb on the safety. When you look inside yourself though, you think maybe the future is worth the sacrifice made in the attempt.`
			apply
				set "spared terry"

> 			`	The holster clicks as you put the weapon away.`

Author: For both this one and the above, I deliberately include a smidgen of ambiguity. We don't need to know, I feel it's perhaps better if we don't.

Also, in her position I wouldn't say anything at all, so there's that.

> 			`	The holster clicks as you put the weapon away.`

Reviewer 3: I think there's room for a middle ground - maybe add a little so the end doesn't feel so abrupt while maintaining room for interpretation on what Terry's thinking or doing.
```suggestion
			`	The holster clicks as you put the weapon away.`
			`	You have nothing left to say to Terry. You turn away, leaving her alone on the bluffs.`
```

> 			`	The holster clicks as you put the weapon away.`

Author: Yeah I don't know. I think I'm quite attached to the ending as it is. I also think it plays out better in game than it reads on here.

				goto return
			label end
			`	You draw your weapon and point it at her, your thumb on the safety. Some prices are too high to pay for a better future.`
			apply
				set "ended terry"

> 			`	The retort of the weapon is taken away on the wind.`

Reviewer 3: 8 hours on and not my best work, I'll admit. The intent here was to make it explicit that the player does, in fact, end Terry's life without less ambiguity (unless ambiguity is intended).
```suggestion
			`	You point your pistol at Terry, who closes her eyes and accepts her fate.`
			`	The retort of the weapon is taken away on the wind.`
```
Struggling to make that work well while keeping the moment's gravity intact. What do you think about this?

> 			`	The retort of the weapon is taken away on the wind.`

Author: You already point it at her in the line before. I think the `choice` option is where any additional specificity should exist if necessary.

			`	The historic moment lays the groundwork for a future official treaty framework and governmental cooperation, and established Mountaintop as the principle diplomatic embassy for both peoples.`
			`	Less publicly, extensive surveillance fleets are posted on both sides of the wormhole to detect any kidnappings or other illegal travel. Now the only way for illicit transfers to happen is if a government employee is involved, but all three countries have quietly agreed to watch for that behavior and punish it severely.`
			`	At last, it really is over and you can get back to your own life.`
			`	Maybe you'll have to find out who the Unfettered were stealing their other technologies from. They mentioned, "Wanderers."`

event "Vara K'chrai is accessible"
	# You can now begin the Wanderers campaign.
	planet "Vara K'chrai"
		"required reputation" 0

event "wandering nightmare map"

mission "Hai Reveal [D05A] Spare Terry"
	landing
	invisible
	source "Aspiration"
	destination "Mountaintop"
	to offer
		has "Hai Reveal [D04] Cleanup: done"
	to fail
		has "ended terry"
	to complete
		not "spared terry"
	on complete

> 		log `You hunted down Terry on Aspiration and confronted her about the events that led you here. You learned that the remnants of the anarcho-syndicalist, anti-Syndicate organization called Base Principles were associated with this planet. There are no other actual individuals here that were involved (at least, not anymore), but this community seems to have been built in isolation with people who believed in the principles of anarcho-syndicalism. Terry threw herself on your mercy, you had destroyed her plans, her livelihood, and forced her to abandon her ambitions. You allowed her to live, but nevertheless this loose end is thoroughly tied up.`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		log `Hunted down Terry on Aspiration and confronted her about the events that led you here. The remnants of the anarcho-syndicalist, anti-Syndicate organization called Base Principles were associated with this planet. There are no other actual individuals here that were involved (at least, not anymore), but this community was built in isolation with people who believed in the principles of anarcho-syndicalism. Allowed her to live, but nevertheless this loose end is thoroughly tied up.`
```

> 		log "People" "Terry Adrianopolous" `During the crisis Terry was arrested when it seemed like war might break out, but was released when the threat of conflict ended. She immediately vanished and was later identified in association with some lingering kidnappers. It is unclear what happened to them, but it is implied that she dealt with them in some way. It turned out that she had been a lone operative infiltrating the Syndicate for many years, with the goal of seizing control and re-making the government into a less corrupt structure. Unfortunately she dealt with people of the worst sort and condoned kidnapping and exploitation to achieve it. With her life in ruins though, and her goals noble, you were merciful. She continues to live on the world of Aspiration, far from civilisation.`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		log "People" "Terry Adrianopolous" `During the Hai-human crisis, Terry was arrested when it seemed like war might break out, but was released when the threat of conflict ended. She immediately vanished and was later identified in association with some lingering kidnappers. It is unclear what happened to them, but it is implied that she dealt with them in some way. It turned out that she had been a lone operative infiltrating the Syndicate for many years, with the goal of seizing control and rebuilding the government to be less corrupt, but she condoned kidnapping and exploitation to achieve it. With her life in ruins, she continues to live on the world of Aspiration, far from civilization.`
```

	
mission "Hai Reveal [D05B] End Terry"
	landing
	invisible
	source "Aspiration"
	destination "Mountaintop"
	to offer
		has "Hai Reveal [D04] Cleanup: done"
	to fail
		has "spared terry"
	to complete
		not "ended terry"
	on complete

> 		log `You hunted down Terry on Aspiration and confronted her about the events that led you here. You learned that the remnants of the anarcho-syndicalist, anti-Syndicate organization called Base Principles were associated with this planet. There are no other actual individuals here that were involved (at least, not anymore), but this community seems to have been built in isolation with people who believed in the principles of anarcho-syndicalism. Terry threw herself on your mercy, you had destroyed her plans, her livelihood, and forced her to abandon her ambitions. When she pleaded her case you became her executioner; this loose end is thoroughly tied up.`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		log `Hunted down Terry on Aspiration and confronted her about the events that led you here. The remnants of the anarcho-syndicalist, anti-Syndicate organization called Base Principles were associated with this planet. There are no other actual individuals here that were involved (at least, not anymore), but this community was built in isolation with people who believed in the principles of anarcho-syndicalism. Chose to end her life. This loose end is thoroughly tied up.`
```

> 		log "People" "Terry Adrianopolous" `During the crisis Terry was arrested when it seemed like war might break out, but was released when the threat of conflict ended. She immediately vanished and was later identified in association with some lingering kidnappers. It is unclear what happened to them, but it is implied that she dealt with them in some way. It turned out that she had been a lone operative infiltrating the Syndicate for many years, with the goal of seizing control and re-making the government into a less corrupt structure. Unfortunately she dealt with people of the worst sort and condoned kidnapping and exploitation to achieve it. Despite her noble intentions her crimes were unconscionable. Her story ended on the bluffs of Aspiration, though no one may ever know it.`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		log "People" "Terry Adrianopolous" `During the Hai-human crisis, Terry was arrested when it seemed like war might break out, but was released when the threat of conflict ended. She immediately vanished and was later identified in association with some lingering kidnappers. It is unclear what happened to them, but it is implied that she dealt with them in some way. It turned out that she had been a lone operative infiltrating the Syndicate for many years, with the goal of seizing control and rebuilding the government to be less corrupt, but she condoned kidnapping and exploitation to achieve it. Her story ended on the bluffs of Aspiration, though no one may ever know it.`
```

			`	"Is this to be my end then?" she aks, "Is this the price I pay for my efforts?"`
			label decide
			choice
				`	(Spare her.)`
					goto spare
				`	(End her.)`
					goto end
				`	"Am I to be judge jury and executioner?"`
					goto judge
			label spare
			`	You draw your weapon and point it at her, your thumb on the safety. When you look inside yourself though, you think maybe the future is worth the sacrifice made in the attempt.`
			apply
				set "spared terry"
			`	The holster clicks as you put the weapon away.`
				goto return
			label end
			`	You draw your weapon and point it at her, your thumb on the safety. Some prices are too high to pay for a better future.`
			apply
				set "ended terry"
			`	The retort of the weapon is taken away on the wind.`
				goto return
			label judge
			`	"You'd better be," she says, "you and I both know that this can't become public. If you take me to the Syndicate they will do away with me if they find out, and I doubt they could manage to not."`
			`	"Oh, Alastair did tell me to say you're fired if you don't get back quickly... that was over a week ago now," you say.`

> 			`	She rolls her eyes, "Of course, this is exactly the sort of callous governance I expect of them."`

Reviewer 4: Small continuity question, it seems like the only person who knows anything about Terry's involvement with the base principles is the player character. Additionally, the loss of Philosopher's Paradise to her plans is devastating but her position within the syndicate seems to not have been jeopardized. This may be an unwanted suggestion (not as if my previous comments were wanted) but the story does seem to leave open the possibility of the player character joining forces with Terry against the Syndicate. idk its all praxis to me.

	on offer
		event "mountaintop ascendant"
		fail "Hai Rescue [C07A] Devil-Hide Fleet"
		log `Returned the Hai to their own space to bring an end to the missing Hai saga. All that remains is to work out what to do about the leak and the cover story, so thin as to provide no modesty to its wearers.`
		

> 		log `Teeneep and General Choot'k together, prominent leaders of the Hai and Unfettered, kissed in a romantic goodbye. They spoke of a future peaceful unification of the Hai.`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		log `Teeneep and General Choot'k, prominent leaders of the Hai and Unfettered, kissed in a romantic goodbye. They spoke of a future peaceful unification of the Hai.`
```

		government "Hai"
		attributes hai "hai tourism"
		landscape land/station0

> 		description `This brand new station is built with wide, spacious interiors to accommodate the Hai's preferred geometric development pattern and long-term perspectives. The powerful holoprojection system, which once projected an 'anomaly' into space to cover the wormhole, is now inactive. Now that the Hai are entering public relations with human governments, this station has come into its own. A wide concourse facilitates social and business exchanges, as well as parades and demonstrations. The two uppermost decks handle state functions and diplomatic services, including the now famed Borealis Chamber, formally referred to as "Where Mountains Touch The Sky," where the public acknowledgment of the Hai was first given, and where the two species committed a formal resolution to define a treaty of cooperation.`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		description `This brand new station is built with wide, spacious interiors to accommodate the Hai's preferred geometric development pattern and long-term perspectives. The powerful holoprojection system, which once projected an "anomaly" into space to cover the wormhole, is now inactive. Now that the Hai are entering public relations with human governments, this station has come into its own. A wide concourse facilitates social and business exchanges, as well as parades and demonstrations. The two uppermost decks handle state functions and diplomatic services, including the now famed Borealis Chamber, formally referred to as "Where Mountains Touch The Sky," where the public acknowledgment of the Hai was first given, and where the two species committed a formal resolution to define a treaty of cooperation.`
```
